# Live Contracts specifications

_Contracts and laws are not something static, but something that is dynamic and can be automation and allow for
participation and are understandable by people without legal knowledge._

### Note to Readers

The issues list for this draft can be found at <https://github.com/legalthings/livecontracts-specs/issues>.
For additional information, see <http://livecontracts.io/>.

To provide feedback, use this issue tracker, the communication methods listed on the homepage, or email the document
editors.

### Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2017 LegalThings One. All rights reserved.

You may use this specification under the [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International Public License](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/legalthings/livecontracts-specifications/master/LICENSE).

## General

### Cryptography

Live Contracts uses the `SHA256` to create a cryptographic hashes. The `Blake2b256` and `Keccak256` hashing algorithms
are used for creating public/secret key pairs. The `Curve25519` (`ED25519` with X25519 keys) scheme is applied to create
and verify signatures. `X25519` is used to for asymmetric encryption. For symmetric encrypt use `AES256` in
Galois/Counter Mode (gcm). `Base58` is used to create the string from of bytes.

[Read more](cryptography.html)

## Specifications

The Live Contracts specifications are described as [JSON schema](http://json-schema.org/).

### 00 - LegalThings Resource Identifier (LTRI)

The LTRI follows a RESTful path structure to identify a resource. The resource collection is always plural. The LTRI
does not identify the system, but it identifies a resource within a system.

[Read more](00-ltri/)

### 01 - Event chain

The event chain is a miniature blockchain that is shared between parties involved in a contract or process. Each event
is signed and that added referencing the previous event, forming a chain. All information of the system is derived from
event chains.

[Read more](01-event-chain/)

### 02 - Identity

An identity within the event chain. The identity is used for authentication and authorization. An identity is not a
user, a user has an identity for each event chain it's participating in.

[Read more](02-identity/)

### 03 - Template

The Live Contract template can be instantiated to create a contract. It holds a templated version of the natural
language text, a form definition to collect the data and links to associated scenarios of the digitized procedures.

[Read more](03-template/)

### 04 - Scenario

A Live Contract scenario is a definition of procedure as a Finite State Machine (FSM). As an FSM, the scenario can be
visualized as flowchart and instantiated as a process.

[Read more](04-scenario/)

### 05 - Action

In a process an actionmay be performed to trigger a state change or to update the process projection. For each action in
the scenario, the `$schema` property MUST be set which is used to execute an action of to display it correctly in the
UI.

[Read more](05-action/)

### 06 - Actor

An actor is an identity or a group of identities that participate on a process. The actors are predefined in a scenario
and instantiated for the process.

[Read more](06-actor/)

### 07 - Data instruction

Data instructions allow you to dynamically set properties of a state or actions when they are instantiated using
data from the projected process.

[Read more](07-data-instruction/)

### 08 - Form

A Live Contracts form defines an input form with steps containing fields. Filling out fields results in a data set. The
form and fields can be rendered directly to HTML or to JavaScript enabled widgets as with Angular or React.

[Read more](08-form/)

### 09 - Form external

Forms MAY fetch external data through an HTTP GET request from a JSON REST API.

[Read more](09-form-external/)

### 10 - Document

A document in natural language with related data and procedures.

[Read more](10-document/)

### 11 - Process

A process is an instantation of a scenario. It is traversable, at any moment you are at a specific point in the process.
A process is also a deterministic projection, generated by processing responses following the update instructions and
transitions of the scenario.

[Read more](11-process/)

### 12 - Response

Executing an action in a process always yields a response. This is regardless of whether the action is performed
manually by the user of automatically by the node. A response may update the process projection and/or trigger a state
transition.

[Read more](12-response/)

### 13 - Comment

A comment is an arbitrary message that can be added to the event chain. It MAY be used for a chat-like feature, where
messages are stored as part of the event chain. Everybody who has access to the event chain can read the comments.

[Read more](13-comment/)

### 14 - Chain request

A node may request a chain or a portion of a chain. When an identity is registers, a node might request the full event
chain for that identity. If a node receives an event, but can't find the corresponding previous event, it will request
the missing event

[Read more](14-chain-request/)

### 15 - Rejection

A node is required to validate if an event is valid before adding it to the event chain. Events that are invalid may
be rejected.

[Read more](15-rejection/)

### 16 - Conflict resolution

In any decentralized system conflicts can arise. Multiple nodes may add an event at the same time or a node might miss
an event causing it to branch the chain. Because an event represents something that happened off-chain, we can't simply
drop events instead they need to be added in such a way that it's visible that a conflict occurred.

[Read more](16-conflict-resolution/)
