# Live Contracts

## General

### Cryptography

Live Contracts uses the `SHA256` to create a cryptographic hashes. The `Blake2b256` and `Keccak256` hashing algorithms are used for creating public/secret key pairs. The `ED25519` scheme is applied to create and verify signatures. `X25519` is used to for asymmetric encryption. For symmetric encrypt use `AES256` in Galois/Counter Mode \(gcm\). `Base58` is used to create the string from of bytes.

### Network

Live Contracts relies on message brokers to share event chains between nodes. The message broker MUST use the `AMQP 0-9-1` to communicate and SHOULD be available over a secured connection.

## Key concepts

The Live Contracts specifications are described as [JSON schema](http://json-schema.org/).

### Event chain

The event chain is a miniature blockchain that is shared between parties involved in a contract or process. Each event is signed and that added referencing the previous event, forming a chain. All information of the system is derived from event chains.

### Identity

An identity within the event chain. The identity is used for authentication and authorization. An identity is not a user, a user has an identity for each event chain it's participating in.

### Scenario

A Live Contract scenario is a definition of procedure as a Finite State Machine \(FSM\). As an FSM, the scenario can be visualized as flowchart and instantiated as a process.

#### Action

In a process an action may be performed to trigger a state change or to update the process projection. For each action in the scenario, the `$schema` property MUST be set which is used to execute an action of to display it correctly in the UI.

#### Actor

An actor is an identity or a group of identities that participate on a process. The actors are predefined in a scenario and instantiated for the process.

#### Data instruction

Data instructions allow you to dynamically set properties of a state or actions when they are instantiated using data from the projected process.

### Process

A process is an instantation of a scenario. It is traversable, at any moment you are at a specific point in the process. A process is also a deterministic projection, generated by processing responses following the update instructions and transitions of the scenario.

### Response

Executing an action in a process always yields a response. This is regardless of whether the action is performed manually by the user of automatically by the node. A response may update the process projection and/or trigger a state transition.

## Node-to-node communication

### Chain request

A node may request a chain or a portion of a chain. When an identity is registers, a node might request the full event chain for that identity. If a node receives an event, but can't find the corresponding previous event, it will request the missing event.

### Rejection

A node is required to validate if an event is valid before adding it to the event chain. Events that are invalid may be rejected.

### Conflict resolution

In any decentralized system conflicts can arise. Multiple nodes may add an event at the same time or a node might miss an event causing it to branch the chain. Because an event represents something that happened off-chain, we can't simply drop events instead they need to be added in such a way that it's visible that a conflict occurred.

